Doc/distribute index workload (#5)
triandco/local-index-prototype: docs/lucenenet-distribute-indexing-workload.md

# Distribute indexing workload with Lucene.net

## Introduction
To provide a recall function on multiple devices, we need a mechanism to synchronise indexes across many devices. This article documents some strategies for such mechanism using Lucene.net as our search engine.

## Lucene.net indexing pipeline
1. Create: document is defined as a collection of [Fields](https://lucenenet.apache.org/docs/3.0.3/de/da7/class_lucene_1_1_net_1_1_documents_1_1_field.html). 

> 1. Analyze: turn each field of a document into a TokenStream. A token consists of many [Attributes](https://lucenenet.apache.org/docs/3.0.3/d3/d52/class_lucene_1_1_net_1_1_util_1_1_attribute.html) which represent its textual value, lexical type, position in the document etc. The process is handled by a chain of Tokenizer. There are two types of tokenizer:
>   1. ```Tokenizer```: take a string and turn it into a TokenStream
>   1. ```Filter```: transform one TokenStream into another
> 1. Index: 
>   1. Process: iterate over TokenStream to generate indexes for the document
>   1. Write: write indexes into a segment 
>   1. Merge: merge segments to increase storage and search efficiency

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Analyze: turn each field of a document into a TokenStream. A token consists of many [Attributes](https://lucenenet.apache.org/docs/3.0.3/d3/d52/class_lucene_1_1_net_1_1_util_1_1_attribute.html) which represent its textual value, lexical type, position in the document etc. The process is handled by a chain of Tokenizer. There are two types of tokenizer:
   1. ```Tokenizer```: take a string and turn it into a TokenStream
   1. ```Filter```: transform one TokenStream into another
1. Index: 
   1. Process: iterate over TokenStream to generate indexes for the document
   1. Write: write indexes into a segment 
   1. Merge: merge segments to increase storage and search efficiency
```

I think we need one more indent so its properly indented

## Strategy 0: Distribute documents content for indexing
The content of the documents is distributed to multiple nodes. Each node is responsible to read document content and generate the index.

### Pros:
1. Sending documents to multiple nodes is relatively simple to implement.

### Cons:

> 1. It requires more storage on each node

Reviewer: It requires more _bandwidth_ for sending the file around. The node doesn't have to keep the document after indexing it though.

2. It does not preserve the privacy of document content between nodes as the full content of the document is distributed to every node.

## Strategy 1: Distribute Token Stream
In this strategy, each node is responsible for analyzing its documents and producing their TokenStream. The stream is then encoded and shared with other nodes. 
1. On origin node, use an ```Analyzer``` to create a ```TokenStream``` for the document
1. Serialize ```TokenStream```: initial investigation indicates that all of Lucene.net ```Attribute``` is serializable.
1. Send serialized TokenStream to target nodes
1. Targets node would generate indexes using a no-op ```Analyzer```

> ### Pros:

Reviewer: Minor: instead of using markdown headers `#` for 'pros' and 'cons', use bold text because GitHub and other viewers can't generate anchor links when there are duplicate headings.

> ### Pros:

Reviewer: Minor: consider 'for' and 'against' as I used in [pipeline.md](https://github.com/triandco/local-index-prototype/blob/main/docs/pipeline.md#appendix-1-coupling-of-sourcing-and-cracking) for consistencies sake.
(Alternatively, those can be changed to pro/con.)

1. It reduces the workload of indexing every document by distributing the analyze process between nodes.
1. It reduces storage and bandwidth requirements because the TokenStream of a document can be much smaller than the document itself.
1. It preserves some privacy of the document content between nodes.

## Cons:
1. It can not be generalised to work with other search engines because ```TokenStream``` is a Lucene implementation

## Strategy 3: Distribute segment files

> In this strategy, each node is responsible for writing its segments. A segment from one node is sent to others to be merged. We have yet to make further investigation into the technical feasibility of this strategy with Lucene.net

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this strategy, each node is responsible for writing its segments. A segment from one node is sent to others to be merged. We have yet to investigate this strategy with Lucene.net
```

Less words 😅
